Add All Hands Retrospective (#547)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/inside-rust/2020-03-19-all-hands-retrospective.md

### Finding a space.
As a group, our first step was to see if we could find other companies to
sponsor a space. We followed a number of leads but ultimately never found
anyone that had a space to offer in a suitable time frame. We started looking
at other options, like private hacker spaces and universities. The University
of Macedonia in Thessaloniki, Greece made us a quite attractive offer, and
they had the right time available, so we decided to go for that.

### Budgeting and sponsorships.
We in the All Hands group did our best to create a budget. Unfortunately we
did not have access to any expense reports from the previous years. We had a
survey we could use to estimate the number of attendees and a rough idea where
they were coming from. We knew the costs of the venue. We added fudge factors.
We thought we'd done a good job, though it would turn out that we were quite
off in our calculations.

Based on our estimated budget, it was clear that Mozilla was not going to be
able to cover the costs alone. It seemed like a good opportunity to try and
build relationships with some of the companies that have started to use Rust

> by approaching them for sponsorships. We weren't sure, though, how man

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by approaching them for sponsorships. We weren't sure, though, how many
```

In short, we encountered some logistical hurdles, which we won't go into, but
which also prompted us to review the finances in more detail. This revealed
that our estimates were off. Thus, we were faced with a tough decision:

* If we continue with the event, there was the chance that the logistics would
  just fail to come together. That would be a true disaster.
* Further, we might not be able to raise enough money to be able to pay for
  the entirety of people's travel and lodging as we had promised. This would be
  unfortunate, though perhaps something people could live with.
* On the other hand, if we cancel, we have to deal with the fact that people
  had already started booking travel.

After much analysis and discussion with the Rust core team, we ultimately
opted for the painful but ultimately safer route: cancelling the event.

**Addendum** Since we cancelled the All Hands, outbreak of the [COVID-19] in
Europe in the recent weeks, would have caused the event to be cancelled
regardless. In a weird twist of fate, we were fortunate to cancel when we did.

[covid-19]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019–20_coronavirus_pandemic

## Lessons Learned

> **Bound uncertainty and and total cost.** — Promising to cover all travel with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Bound uncertainty and total cost.** — Promising to cover all travel with
```

no kind of upper limit was unwise. It had worked in the past, perhaps, but the
event was growing, and that was partly luck.

**Location, location, location** — It was hard to find a good location. While
Thessaloníki was cheap and great in some ways, we encountered some logistical
hiccups that made it less than ideal. For example; we found that the cost of a
lot of the flights for our international members were quite high compared to
other European
cities.

**Know your audience** — Some companies weren't interested in sponsoring

> because the event wasn't sufficiently high profile, or because the "ROI" didn't

Reviewer 3: Maybe let's note what ROI means for the people unfamiliar with the abbreviation.

quite fit into the budgets and categories it would have to come from. We also
had some uncertainty about how much "participation" to offer in exchange for
sponsorship, since we didn't want to give the impression that one could just
"buy your way" into the All Hands — at the same time, there is clear value to
the Rust organisation in having sponsors participate.

## The Future

Right now, we're currently organising reimbursing anyone who had purchased non

> refundable ticket. We're also going to take the time to step back an re

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
refundable ticket. We're also going to take the time to step back and re-
```

account we could use to collect and distribute money, and we didn't have an
obvious entity to sign legal agreements.

At this point, we spoke to a company that might serve as a bank account. We
had a quick call and went over a plan that seemed promising. Mozilla would
contract with them for their services managing and organising the event, and
this would serve as Mozilla's sponsorship. The other sponsorships and proceeds
from ticket sales would collect in their bank account and we would
manage distributions.

### Pulling the trigger.
At that point, we sent mail encouraging people to book tickets, and we also
started following up more with sponsors. Our expectation was that we would
soon have a bank account for collecting funds, and we started collecting
information to repay people who had booked travel.

In retrospect, it's clear that this was premature. It seemed like all the
pieces were in place, and we knew that if people didn't start booking tickets,
they never would. But the pieces were not in place, not actually, and we clearly
should have taken this moment ask whether we were really going to be able to
pull this off.

### Realising it won't work.

> Finally, this all started to unravel in a about a month away from the event.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This all started to unravel about a month before the event.
```

> In short, we encountered some logistical hurdles, which we won't go into, but

Reviewer 5: I would expand a little - something like: business and legal issues which were insurmountable due to other organizations' constraints.

which also prompted us to review the finances in more detail. This revealed
that our estimates were off. Thus, we were faced with a tough decision:

* If we continue with the event, there was the chance that the logistics would

>   just fail to come together. That would be a true disaster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  just fail to come together. That would leave attendees in Greece, out of pocket, and without an All Hands to attend.
```

* Further, we might not be able to raise enough money to be able to pay for
  the entirety of people's travel and lodging as we had promised. This would be
  unfortunate, though perhaps something people could live with.
* On the other hand, if we cancel, we have to deal with the fact that people

>   had already started booking travel.

Reviewer 5: add something like "and knowing that it *might* have worked if only we had tried" or similar?

> After much analysis and discussion with the Rust core team, we ultimately

Reviewer 5: If you can remember, it would be nice to add the reasoning here.

opted for the painful but ultimately safer route: cancelling the event.

**Addendum** Since we cancelled the All Hands, outbreak of the [COVID-19] in
Europe in the recent weeks, would have caused the event to be cancelled
regardless. In a weird twist of fate, we were fortunate to cancel when we did.

[covid-19]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019–20_coronavirus_pandemic

## Lessons Learned
**Bound uncertainty and total cost.** — Promising to cover all travel with
no kind of upper limit was unwise. It had worked in the past, perhaps, but the

> event was growing, and that was partly luck.

Reviewer 5: I think it was largely due to a different funding model rather than luck

Author: I think luck here is referring to other factors than just funding. For example, some of the costs to pay for people's travel was definitely offset by hosting in Berlin which was/is already pretty populated with Rust org members.

**Location, location, location** — It was hard to find a good location. While
Thessaloníki was cheap and great in some ways, we encountered some logistical
hiccups that made it less than ideal. For example; we found that the cost of a
lot of the flights for our international members were quite high compared to
other European
cities.

**Know your audience** — Some companies weren't interested in sponsoring
because the event wasn't sufficiently high profile, or because the "ROI"
("Return On Investment") didn't quite fit into the budgets and categories it
would have to come from. We also had some uncertainty about how much
"participation" to offer in exchange for sponsorship, since we didn't want to
give the impression that one could just "buy your way" into the All Hands — at

> the same time, there is clear value to the Rust organisation in having

Reviewer 5: I would rephrase along to make clear that the people we approached to sponsor are people we would want at the event in any case.

sponsors participate.

> 

Reviewer 5: I would add that organising such an event is more complex, and takes longer than we thought. Relatively minor issues like having a bank account blew up into big things and we didn't have the time or resources to deal with them

## The Future

> Right now, we're currently organising reimbursing anyone who had purchased non

Reviewer 6: I think we should add a sentence crediting Mozilla for paying the reimbursements here (or somewhere).
